
# Terms and Definitions

For the purposes of this document, the following terms and definitions apply.

**Note:** For definitions and explanations of the iiRDS schema, see iiRDS RDF Schema Reference.

- *AutomationML:* open, XML-based data format for the exchange of plant engineering information in a heterogeneous tool landscape. AutomationML is intended to interconnect various disciplines like mechanical design, electrical design, HMI development, PLC programming or robot control.
- *Blank node:* (also called bnode) is a node in an RDF graph representing a resource for which an URI or literal is not given. For the W3C definition, see [here](https://www.w3.org/TR/2014/REC-rdf11-concepts-20140225/#section-blank-nodes).
- *Directory Structure:* navigation hierarchy for information units, for example, a table of contents.
- *DITA:* Darwin Information Typing Architecture or Document Information Typing Architecture (DITA) is an XML data model for authoring and publishing. For further information follow the [link](http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dita/v1.3/dita-v1.3-part0-overview.html) to the OASIS definition.
- *Docking point:* A docking point is an iiRDS class which is meant to be extended by proprietary subclasses and instances to model company- or industry-specific resources. Other iiRDS classes are also extendable, but at docking points the standard refrains from providing further vocabulary as it is highly user specific.
- *Domain Extensions:* additional classes and instances that extend the iiRDS core vocabulary. By separating domain-specific vocabulary from the core vocabulary, the standard aims to keep the iiRDS core vocabulary lean and easily accessible.
- *HTML5:* W3C recommendation from 2014. See [[HTML5]] for details.
- *iiRDS:* intelligent information Request and Delivery Standard. iiRDS enables applications to exchange technical documentation across suppliers and devices.
- *iiRDS/A:* iiRDS package containing only well-defined content formats. Content formats in iiRDS/A are predefined, useful for example for generic archiving. A /A-package is self-contained.
- *iiRDS Generator:* application that creates iiRDS\-compliant information from a source format like XML or Word.
- *iiRDS Consumer:* application that reads and processes iiRDS\-compliant information on the receiving end, e\.g\. on a server, in a content delivery portal, or a web application.
- *iiRDS Creator:* a party creating iiRDS compliant information.
- *IRI:* Internationalized Resource Identifier (IRI) is the internationalized form of Uniform Resource Identifier (URI). IRIs extend the set of characters permitted in URIs from a subset of the ASCII character set to almost all characters of the Universal Character Set (Unicode/ISO 10646). See [[rfc3987]].
- *OPC-UA:* is an industrial M2M communication protocol. It enables secure transport of machine data (control variables, measured values, parameters, etc.) and also semantic description of machine-readable data. The OPC-UA standard is specified in IEC TR 62541-1, IEC TR 62541-2, IEC 62541-3, IEC 62541-4, IEC 62541-5, IEC 62541-6, IEC 62541-7, IEC 62541-8, IEC 62541-9, IEC 62541-10, IEC 62541-11, IEC 62541-13 and IEC 62541-100.
- *Query:* statement to retrieve information, describes filtering information in an abstract language, for example SPARQL. The retrieved information contains a set of resources.
- *RAMI4.0:* the Reference Architecture Model Industrie 4.0 contains the essential aspects of Industrie 4.0. It supplements hierarchy levels from IEC 62264 at the lower end with the level of the product or workpiece ("product") and at the upper end with the "connected world" beyond the individual factory. The horizontal axis is used to represent the lifecycle of plants or products, whereby the aspect of the distinction between type and instance is also represented. Finally, the six layers are used to describe the IT representation of an Industrie 4.0 component in a structured way.
- *RDF:* describes a technical approach on the Internet to formulate logical statements about arbitrary things (resources). Originally, RDF was conceived by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) as a standard for describing metadata. In the meantime, RDF has become a fundamental building block of the Semantic Web. RDF is similar to the classic methods for modeling concepts such as UML class diagrams and entity relationship models. In the RDF model, each statement consists of the three units: subject, predicate and object. In order to have globally unique identifiers for resources, they are formed in accordance with the convention that is used to form URLs. URLs for commonly used descriptions, such as metadata, are known to RDF developers and used worldwide for the same purpose, allowing programs to display the data in a meaningful way for humans. See also [here](https://www.w3.org/RDF/).
- *rdf:about:* identifies instances, contained in subclasses of `iirds:InformationUnit`, that assign metadata to pieces of technical information.
- *SPARQL:* RDF query language for semantic databases. It is able to retrieve and manipulate data stored in Resource Description Framework (RDF) format.
- *URI:* identifier consisting of a string that identifies an abstract or physical resource. URIs are used to designate resources (such as web pages, other files, web services, e-mail recipients) on the Internet and especially on the WWW. URIs are embedded as character strings (coded with a character set) in digital documents, especially those in HTML format or written down on paper by hand. A reference from one website to another is called a hyperlink or "link". The Internationalized Resource Identifiers (IRIs) are an extension of the URIs that only consist of printable ASCII characters. See also  [here](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986).
- *XHTML5:* XHTML5 is the XML\-serialized variant of HTML5 described in the HTML5 specification. See [https://www.w3.org/TR/2014/REC\-html5\-20141028/the\-xhtml\-syntax.html\#the\-xhtml\-syntax](https://www.w3.org/TR/2014/REC-html5-20141028/the-xhtml-syntax.html) for details.
